# Rash-Driving-Analysis-for-Safety-Enforcement

BUSINESS USE CASE:
Rash driving analysis for safety enforcement is an intensive analytic engine that analyses the rash driving of the driver and generates insights based on his/her driving abilities. This system is also connected to the governmental authorities like the insurance companies and RTO systems who recieve the insights generated by the driving analytic engine and then using these reports, many side-businesses can be created.
The insurance companies can charge variable premium from different drivers based on the neat or rash driving he/she has been doing. 
The RTO's can levy heavy penalties based on the driving skills that has been recorded over a period of time.
This system is indirectly creating awareness for safe driving and trying to improve the overall road sense and chaos and prevent accidents.

Technical feaures:
1) This system has an accelerometer(MPU6050) which keeps a track of the speed and most importantly change in the speed so that suddenly acceleration or sudden brakes can be tracked as these two factors are also called rash driving.
2)It uses VNC to establish a cloud connectivity between the Raspberry Pi 3(A smart IoT device) to the main server which generates insights.
3) Such communication can be controlled and passed on to the main server as well as the governmental authorities and insurance companies via the Message queuing telemetry transport protocol.
4) It uses the R programming to generate the insights from the raw data that the smart sensor is collecting real time and passing it through a comma separated file.

Future Scope:
1)To use the gyroscope to analyse the sudden turns
2)To use the proximity sensors to alert to maintain distances
3)To improve the analytic engine for generating report in a situtaion of heavy traffic where suddenly acceleration and sudden brake is needed. This can be done by using the Googles location density API which tells how much traffic is present.
4) To uses smart speed detectors to alert the driver if the speed limit is crossed and to create an edge service which slows the car down if the speed limit is crossed for a long time.
5) To automate the process of penalties using the concept of RFID, where each time the driver violates auto fine is taken.
